[DX-978] Improved-URL-rewrite (#3943)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-classic.md

---
title: Using the URL Rewrite middleware with Tyk Classic APIs
date: 2024-01-17
description: "Using the URL Rewrite middleware with Tyk Classic APIs"
tags: ["URL rewrite", "middleware", "per-endpoint", "Tyk Classic"]
---

> ## Overview

Author: The reason for this is that it then appears in the right hand menu for easy navigation within the page

> Tyk's [URL rewriter]({{< ref "/transform-traffic/url-rewriting" >}}) uses the concepts of triggers and rules to determine if the request (target) URL should be modified. These can be combined in flexible ways to create sophisticated logic to direct requests made to a single endpoint to various upstream services (or other APIs internally exposed within Tyk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk's [URL rewriter]({{< ref "transform-traffic/url-rewriting" >}}) uses the concepts of triggers and rules to determine if the request (target) URL should be modified. These can be combined in flexible ways to create sophisticated logic to direct requests made to a single endpoint to various upstream services (or other APIs internally exposed within Tyk).
```

> URL rewrite triggers and rules are explained in detail [here]({{< ref "/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-middleware" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL rewrite triggers and rules are explained in detail [here]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-middleware" >}}).
```

When working with Tyk Classic APIs the rules and triggers are configured in the Tyk Classic API Definition; this can be done manually within the `.json` file or from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

If you want to use dynamic data from context variables, you must [enable]({{< ref "context-variables#enabling-context-variables-for-use-with-tyk-classic-apis" >}}) context variables for the API to be able to access them from the URL rewrite middleware.

```

> If you're using the newer Tyk OAS APIs, then check out [this]({{< ref "/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-oas" >}}) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the newer Tyk OAS APIs, then check out the [url-rewrite-tyk-oas]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-oas" >}}) page.
```

Author: ```suggestion
If you're using the newer Tyk OAS APIs, then check out the [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-oas" >}}) page.
```

> If you're using the newer Tyk OAS APIs, then check out the [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-oas" >}}) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the newer Tyk OAS APIs, then check out the [Tyk OAS]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-tyk-oas" >}}) page.
```

                                "reverse": "false",
                            }
                        }
                    },
                    "rewrite_to": "library/service/author?genre=$tyk_context.trigger-0-genre-0",
                },
                {
                    "on": "all",
                    "options": {
                        "header_val_matches": {
                            "X-Enable-Beta": {
                                "match_rx": "true",
                                "reverse": "false",
                            }
                        },
                        "session_meta_matches": {
                            "beta_enabled": {
                                "match_rx": "true",
                                "reverse": "false",
                            }
                        }
                    },
                    "rewrite_to": "https://beta.library.com/books/author",
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

In this example, the basic trigger is configured as before, but two advanced triggers have been added.

The first advanced trigger has this configuration:

>  - key location is query parameter

Author: ```suggestion
 - key location is query parameter (`query_val_matches`)
```

>  - key name is genre

Author: ```suggestion
 - key name is "genre"
```

>  - pattern is fiction

Reviewer: also refer to match_rx in example?

>  - pattern is fiction

Author: ```suggestion
 - pattern  (`match_rx`) is fiction
```

So if a `GET` request is made to `/books/author?genre=fiction` the advanced trigger will fire and the URL will be rewritten to `library/service/author?genre=fiction`.

The second advanced trigger has this configuration:
 - rule condition: ALL
 - rule 1

>     - key location is header parameter

Author: ```suggestion
    - key location is header parameter (`header_val_matches`)
```

    - key name is `X-Enable-Beta`

>     - pattern is `true``

Author: ```suggestion
    - pattern (`match_rx`) is `true``
```

 - rule 2

>     - key location is session metadata

Author: ```suggestion
    - key location is session metadata (`session_meta_matches`)
```

    - key name is `beta_enabled`

>     - pattern is `true`

Author: ```suggestion
    - pattern (`match_rx`) is `true`
```

So if a `GET` request is made to `/books/author` with a header `"X-Enable-Beta":"true"` and, within the session metadata, `"beta_enabled":"true"` the second advanced trigger will fire and the URL will be written to `https://beta.library.com/books/author` taking the request to a different upstream host entirely.

## Configuring the URL rewriter in the API Designer

> You can use the API Designer in the Tyk Designer to configure the URL rewrite middleware for your Tyk Classic API by following these steps.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard to configure the URL rewrite middleware for your Tyk Classic API by following these steps.
```

---
title: Using the URL Rewrite middleware with Tyk Classic APIs
date: 2024-01-17
description: "Using the URL Rewrite middleware with Tyk Classic APIs"
tags: ["URL rewrite", "middleware", "per-endpoint", "Tyk Classic"]
---

Tyk's [URL rewriter]({{< ref "transform-traffic/url-rewriting" >}}) uses the concepts of triggers and rules to determine if the request (target) URL should be modified. These can be combined in flexible ways to create sophisticated logic to direct requests made to a single endpoint to various upstream services (or other APIs internally exposed within Tyk).

URL rewrite triggers and rules are explained in detail [here]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/url-rewrite-middleware" >}}).

> When working with Tyk Classic APIs the rules and triggers are configured in the Tyk Classic API Definition; this can be done manually within the `.json` file or from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
When working with Tyk Classic APIs the rules and triggers are configured in the Tyk Classic API Definition. You can do this via the Tyk Dashboard API or in the API Designer.
```

The `triggers` element is an array, with one entry per advanced trigger. For each of those triggers you configure:
 - `on` to set the logical condition to be applied to the rules (`any` or `all`)
 - `options` a list of rules for the trigger
 - `rewrite_to` the address to which the (target) URL should be rewritten if the trigger fires

The rules are defined using this format:
```
{
    key_location: {
        key_name: {
            "match_rx": pattern
            "reverse": true/false (set to true to trigger if pattern does not match)
        }
    }
}
```

Key locations are encoded as follows:
 - `header_matches` - request header parameter
 - `query_val_matches` - query parameter
 - `path_part_matches` - path parameter (i.e. components of the path itself)
 - `session_meta_matches` - session metadata
 - `payload_matches`- request body
 - `request_context_matches`- request context

For example:

```{.json}
{
    "url_rewrites": [
        {
            "path": "books/author",
            "method": "GET",
            "match_pattern": "(\w+)/(\w+)",
            "rewrite_to": "library/service?value1=$1&value2=$2",

>             "triggers": [

Author: Thanks - updated.

---
title: Using the URL Rewrite middleware with Tyk Classic APIs
date: 2024-01-17
description: "Using the URL Rewrite middleware with Tyk Classic APIs"
tags: ["URL rewrite", "middleware", "per-endpoint", "Tyk Classic"]
---

> ## Overview

Author: ```suggestion
```
